Top 7 Web Mining Tools Around the Web

A web data miner is computer software that uses data mining techniques to identify or discover patterns 
from large data sets. Data is money in today’s world, but the information is huge, diverse, and redundant. 
Having the tools for mining is going to be a gateway to help you get the right information. In this post,
you can learn the list of the most popular web mining tools around the web.


1. Octoparse
Octoparse is a simple but powerful web data mining tool that automates web data extraction. 
It allows you to create highly accurate extraction rules. (You know I will definitely mention our tool.) 
Crawlers run in Octoparse are determined by the configured rule. The extraction rule would tell Octoparse
which website to go to, where the data you plan to crawl is, what kind of data you want, and much more.

You can extract data by using Octoparse web data miner within 3 easy steps. 
Or you can follow Octoparse detailed user guide.

Step 1: Copy and paste the target URL to Octoparse main panel after you have downloaded it on your devices.

Step 2: Extract data by the auto-detect mode and customize the workflow on the right panel. Or you can try the pre-set templates.

Step 3: Run the task after you have a preview. After a few minutes, you can download the data to Excel, CSV, or other formats that are able for further use.

Supported Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/8/10

Area of Web Mining: Web Content Mining


2. R
R is a language or a free environment for statistical computing and graphics. 
It has been made accessible from scripting languages like Python, Ruby, Perl, etc.

Supported Operating Systems: UNIX platforms, Windows, MacOS

Area of Web Mining: Web Usage Mining


3. Oracle Data Mining (ODM)
Oracle Data Mining is a data mining software by Oracle. Oracle Data Mining is implemented in the Oracle 
Database kernel, and mining models are first-class database objects. Oracle Data Mining processes 
use built-in features of Oracle Database to maximize scalability and make efficient use of system resources.

Supported Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows

Area of Web Mining: Web Usage Mining


4. Tableau
Tableau offers a family of interactive data visualization products focused on business intelligence. 
Tableau allows instantaneous insight by transforming data into visually appealing, interactive visualizations
called dashboards. This process takes only seconds or minutes rather than months or years and is achieved
through the use of an easy-to-use, drag-and-drop interface.

Supported Operating Systems: Mac, Windows

Area of Web Mining: Web Usage Mining

 

5. Scrapy
Scrapy is an open-source framework for collecting data from websites. It is written in 
Python and you can write the rules to extract web data.

Supported Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Mac, and BSD

Area of Web Mining: Web Content Mining


6. HITS algorithm
HITS, short for Hyperlink-Induced Topic Search, also known as hubs and authorities, is a link analysis algorithm 
that rates Web pages. In the HITS algorithm, the first step is to retrieve the most relevant pages to the search query. 
This set is called the root set and can be obtained by taking the top pages returned by a text-based search algorithm. 
A base set is generated by augmenting the root set with all the web pages that are linked from it and some of the pages
that link to it. The web pages in the base set and all hyperlinks among those pages form a focused subgraph.

Area of Web Mining: Web Structure Mining

 

7. PageRank
PageRank Algorithm is a popular Web structure Mining Algorithm. PageRank is a link analysis algorithm and 
it assigns a numerical weighting to each element of a hyperlinked set of documents, such as the World Wide Web, 
with the purpose of “measuring” its relative importance within the set. The algorithm may be applied to any
collection of entities with reciprocal quotations and references.

Area of Web Mining: Web Structure Mining


